BUSI 2121 - Introduction to Organizational Behaviour
============================================

#### Professor: Dr. Angela Dionisi

## Lecture 1 - January 10 2019

### Today's Agenda

* Introductions
* Course Overview & Expectations
* What is Organizational Behaviour?
* Origins of the Field

### Administrative

* Office hours: Fridays 3:00pm - 5:00pm Dunton Tower 1705 (info is on cuLearn)
* cuLearn: Has all of the course materials and is where communication and assignment submission will occur.
* Teaching Assistants: This class will have TAs

### Course Aims

* Increase understanding of individuals and groups in organizations
* Discover what Organizational Behaviour means in your own life. How you personality is affecting others, why you aren't motivated etc..
* Problem identification, analysis and development of practical solutions (how to apply what we learn in the class in order to solve real world buissness problems)

### Course materials

* Textbook
Johns & Saks (2017). Organizational Behaviour: Understanding and Managing Life at Work, 10th Ed.
* Supplemental Readings
Articles available on cuLearn
* Case / Simulation Package
Will be made available on Ares

Please do the readings!!!
A lot of the exam and midterm will be on the **readings**
**You will not pass if you do not do the readings**

### Course Expectations

* Come ready to work!
* Come to class prepared; participate
* Be informed (you are going to know what we are going to talk about, assignments coming up etc...)
Powerpoint slides are pasted on the website 1 day before. (fill in the blank type slides)
You can print them out follow along and fill out blank along the way.
* Classroom citizenship (be respectful)

#### Technology

* Multi-tasking...
    * Reduces productivity by approx. 40%
    * Reduces ability
    * Reduces IQ

* Handwriting notes achieve higher retention and higher grades compared to laptops

**DON'T MULTITASK!!!**

* Attendance (if you miss a class it is up to you to get caught up)
    * Be here Week 9 ... **or risk "unprofessionalism Deduction" -4% OVERALL course grade!**

* Academic Integrity (Don't cheat)

### Course Assessment

* Class engagement 15%
    * "*In the Headlines*" x2
    * *Live Simulation Debrief Questions*
* Midterm Exam 30% (February 16th)
Multiple choice and short answer
* Group Case Analysis 25% (Groups of 4-5)
You will be assignment a business case and you will make recommendations on how to solve that cases problems
* Final Exam 30%
The final will **NOT** be cumulative

**ITS IN THE SYLLABUS**

### What makes or breaks! the workplace?

* Communications
* Age (Differences between employees/management)
* How fulfilling is your job? (beyond collecting a paycheck)
* The physical aspects of the workplace
* Stress
* Culture
* Creativity
* Pay

#### People/Relationships

* Wonderful / Terrible Coworkers
* Bosses / Leaders
* Mistreatment

#### Environment

* Policies / Rules
* Culture
 * Inclusivity

#### Nature of Work

* Interesting /Boring Tasks
* Sense of Purpose

### What is Organizational Behaviour

* The attitudes of individuals and groups in organizations
We spend 100000 hours plus at work..we want this time to be..not insufferable
* How can jobs be structured more effectively
* How contextual variables affect organizations

### Goals of Organizational Behaviour

* Predicting the Behaviour in Organizations (When)
How to predict the Behaviour of others is advantageous. When are people going to do diffrent things. (don't just guess how people will act)
* Explaining behaviour in Organizations (Why)
There is a big difference between predicting and knowing why something happens
    * why are certain people less motivated, satisfied etc.
    But..... it's tricky!!
        * Multiple Causes
        * Things can chage over time
* Managing Behaviour in Organizations (How)
Management = the art of getting things accomplished in organizations through others.
    * All about taking action (which comes from what we find out from 1&2)
    * The issue is a lot of times in the real world managers take action with out information from the first two steps

### Evidence - Based Management

* NOT one sized fits all analysis and Management

Most people aren't basing their management on current studies etc..

eg:     
    money isn't actually the best motivator

#### Good Evidence

* Scientific , peer review research
* Data generator for a specific organization
* Views of experts
* Crowdsourcing

### Why should we care?

* We are living in a 4th industrial revolution (automation)
Things are changing

* "It's human skills - not techincal skills are what are need..."

* Soft skills are increasingly more important than hard skills
* In the age of automation jobs will require **critical things and collaboration skills**
* These skills are in much higher demand
* Technical skills + communication , collaboration, leadership etc.

* A focus on developing these skills is necessary
This class is on the right track
* OB can help you cultivate your own skills. Which are critical in the real world to helping you get and keep jobs
* OB can help to make better leaders - be that you or your bosses
We have a change to be a leader in so many different parts of our lives
* OB can be used to make our workplaces better / safer/ more enjoyable and motivating
* OB can help organizational effectiveness and efficiency
If our organization is successful we will be too


### How much do you know about OB

* The most effective organizational leaders will possess a core set of persnoality traits.
Its about the whole package
* Nearly all workers prefer stimulating, challenging jobs.
Stimulating work is more fun!
People want to prove themselves
Comfort zone - some people don't want to step out of it
* Pay is the best way to motivate employees and improve job performance.
Money provides stability

**ALL OF THESE STATEMENTS ARE FALSE**

* The most effective organizational leaders will possess a core set of persnoality traits.
Vary a lot
* Nearly all workers prefer stimulating, challenging jobs.
Some people like routine jobs
* Pay is the best way to motivate employees and improve job performance.
Meaning of work can be a much better motivator

### What predicts behaviour?

Individual factors, Situational factors, Environmental factors

### The History of OB

People used to be looking for **THE** correct solution

#### Classical View

Context:

    Industrial revolution (late 1700s to late 1800s)
    Industry = work
    Revolution = rapid change

    Farms -> Factories
    etc..

    * Power!!! (sped up work)
    Helped Factories grow very quickly
    * Machinery upgrades
    * Transportation (trains, roads etc.)

This created a need for how to organize work

* The industrial Revolution - Issues
    * Increasing pace of industry (logistical questions)
    * People working alongside machinery (Training, safety)
    * Large groups working together (personality clashes, authority relationships - didn't really exist before)

* How are we gonig to organize this
* How are we going to maximize productivity

* Founding Fathers of OB

##### Max Weber - Big picture (Bureaucracy)

* Bureaucracy
    * Organizations should look like government
        * Strict chain of command
        * Rules and regulations
        * Centralization of power
    * Alternative to traditional, family based management
        * Concerned with favouritism or 'particularism'
        * Standard guidelines should determine peoples hiring / firing , positions
        Big picture thinker

##### Frederick Taylor - Micro (Scientific management)

More Micro focus

* Scientific management (Taylorism)
    * Applying science to work
    * The customized approach was inefficient (people just did what they though was good)
    * Wanted to find the "one right way" to do every single task (how many motions, goal what how you could speed things up, end goal was a formula for the 'right way')
    * Written instructions, standardization of *everything* (even how to do their lunch break!)

* Time and motion studies
    * Reduce amount of time
    * Reduce number of motions

    * Break each task into small steps
    * Standardize
    * Proscribe protocols

* Results (Bricklaying Example)
    * Raised the bricks on a shelf and made other changes to reduce amount of time and number of movements used
     **Results: 300% increase !!!**

##### Henry Fayol - Management (Administrative Science)

* Administrative science
    * More systematic principles to train leaders
    * He saw a lack of available management theory in his day (management didn't really exist)
    * He wanted to start a discussion
    * He wrote a book

* Management Activites
    * Planning - look ahead , plan
    * Organization - arrange people / tasks
    * Command - oversee, lead
    * Coordinate - harmonize and facilitate
    * Control - ensure compliance (accounting, finance, technical stuff)

At the time these thought were ground breaking

#### Common elements

* Hierarchy
* Division of labour
* Standardized approach
* Centralization of Authority
* Separate personal and work life
* Best people for the job
* Pay people fairly (more money to the best people)

**These three figures are the founding father of classical management theory**

Everything after is a reaction of some sort to these ideas

A lot of these things are still in use in factories, farming, fast food. So it is still relavent, in some industies it is even more common than it was before.

### Human Relations View

* Hawthorne Studies
    * Western Electric Company
    * Goal - determine optimal levels of lighting, temp and pace of work

    * Created experimental group and control groups
    * Altered conditions in experimental Groups
     And they saw substantial improvements!
     But they also saw substantial improvements when conditions were reverted

     **What's going on?**

     * It's not about the way jobs are structured , what the environment is like

     * It was about the fact that an improvement was trying to be made

     Psychological and social processes matter. The way workers preformed is relational, social.

* Calls attention to certain dysfunctional aspects of the classical view
    * Strict specialization conflicts with human needs for growth and achievement. Employees lose sight of the value of their work
    * Centralization fails to draw from lower level employees
    * Strict impersonal rules can lead to minimal performance regardless of capability

* Avocation for more people-oriented management
* Tension between the two Views

### Contingency Approach to Management

**THERE IS NO ONE BEST WAY**

ie. IT DEPENDS !!!!

* An appropriate management style depends on the demands of the situation

* Thinking about individual moderators
* Think about group/organizational moderators
* Think about environmental moderators
