COMP 2406 - Web Applications
===========================

## Lecture 1 - January 8 2019

#### Instructor: Lou Nel

#### Lab Coordinator: VOJA

### Course Website

www.scs.carleton.ca/~ldnel/2406winter2019

userid: 2406A        password: winter2019

This course is a full stack dev course.

Full stack: Everything. Client + server.

JavaScript has the monopoly right now. Nodejs is the guts of the chrome browser.

Only one programming language in the course. JavaScript for server and client. Full stack JavaScript.

Expectation to pick up html and css etc on your own.

Large update has occurred to JavaScript (ES6)

### Marking Scheme

- Tutorials 25% (10 Tutorials. Count best 8/10)
- Assignments 30% (5 Assignments. Count best 4/5)
- Midterm 10% (If your final exam mark is better than the midterm mark, the midterm mark will be replaced by the final exam mark)
- Final Exam 35%

Start the tutorials before the tutorial starts. So you have time to ask questions

Assignment questions during office hours or workshops

### Workshops

Workshop times and places will be on culearn

**If you ignore the submission format you will get a zero**


## Lecture 2 - January 10 2019

### Next Week

Tuesday we will be shown the open stack environment

Thursday is the most important course of the year.

### First Program (Hello World)

2 Different pieces of code. 1 lives on the server and ther other lives on the client.

Client execution supported in the browser with JavaScript, which is in every browser.

Nodejs is basically the guts of chrome and this is what is used on the server.

### Course browser

The browser we will be using for the course is Google Chrome.

### Nodejs

Use the lastest LTS version.

### ES5 vs ES6

Ways to define strings:

    ES5 = 'James' "James"

    ES6='James' "James" `James`

You can inject data using backticks
This will be used a lot in this course.

````````````````````

let str = `my name is ${x.name}`

````````````````````
### What is a Server

Piece of code that runs thats willing to recivce and respond to http requests

What language would you like to speak.

http://127.0.0.1:3000 <- local host
https://

* ip address

Its like a phone number. You can call Carleton and then use the extension to reach the person.

ip:port

### Static Server

A server that just hosts a file.

### HTTP Basics

There is a slideshow on the website on http Basics

### HTML

For webapps html is mostly used as an envelope

### Thin vs Thick Client

Where is the html going to be rendered? The server or the client?
Where is the JavaScript going to be rendered? The server or the client?

### Not websites - Web **Apps**

This course isn't about making websites. It is about making webapps

### WeirdStuff

* Asynchronous functions
* Closures (going back in time to a position that the stack was in)

The first month of the course will be getting your head around this.

After that npm (node package manager)
We will use for importing modules.
